---
title: "Little Mech-Math"
collection: teaching
type: "Olympliad School Course"
permalink: /teaching/2016-2022-teaching
venue: "Moscow State University, Faculty of Mechanics and Mathematics"
date: 2022-09-01
location: "Moscow, Russia"
---

During the period 2016-2022 I tought students not only olympiad mathematics but we considered interesting non-trivial topics in such branches of Mathematics as Topology, Abstract Algebra, Differential Geometry, Probability in Combinatorics etc. In each case I tried to simplify a language and gave some intuition of main ideas without loss of strictness as might as possible. 

2021-2022
======
I thought grades 9-11 students (common group). The discossed themes are close to the following ones: 

1. Recurrence Relations
2. Conic Sections
3. Projective Plane $\mathbb{R}P^2$ and Projective Transformations
4. Pole and Polar, Cross-Ratio, Pascal's Theorem, Brianсhon's Theorem
5. Algebra of Quaternions $\mathbb{H}$
6. Geometry of Quaternions, homomorphsim $\mathrm{Sp}(1)\to SO(3)$
7. Probabilities, Buffon's needle problem 
8. Probabilistic method, Card Shuffling Problem (from "Proofs from THE BOOK")
9. Knots and their inavriants
10. Pick's theorem, Continued Fractions and Dirichlet's Approximatopn Theorem
11. Hurwitz's theorem
12. Cyclic Groups, Root of Unity Groups and Euler's Formula $e^{x+iy} = e^x\left ( \cos y + i\sin y \right )$ 
13. Cyclotomic Polynomials $\Phi_n$ and Weak Variant of Dirichlet's Progressions Theorem for primes of the form $p\cong 1\ (\mathrm{mod}\ n)$ 
14. Vieta Jumping

2020-2021
======
I thought grades 9-11 students (common group). The discossed themes are close to the following ones: 

1. Geometry of Numbers
2. Сolors in Combinatorics
3. Arrow's Impossibility Theorem
4. Simmetric Polynomials
5. Three Convex Hull Theorems
6. Center of Mass
7. Divisibility 
8. Algebra of Complex Numbers $\mathbb{C}$
9. Geometry of Complex Numbers, Chasles' theorem, Napoleon's theorem
10. Areas
11. Catalan Numbers
12. Vector Fields on a Plane
13. Aztec Diamond

2019-2020
======
I thought grades 9-11 students (common group). The discossed themes are close to the following ones: 

1. Number Theory: Pythagorean triples, Pell's equation, Markov's equation
2. Abstract Algebra: Gaussian numbers, rings and fields, iteals, principle domaines, Euclidean rings, Fermat’s Christmas Theorem
3. Differential Geometry: Cavalieri's principle, computing volumes of solids via Cavalieri's principle, Crofton formula, On the Sphere and Cylinder approach by Archimedes

2018-2019
======
I thought grades 9-11 students (common group). The discossed themes are close to the following ones: 

1. Plane geometry: inversion and its applications
2. Solid geometry: polyhedra, circumscribed and inscribed spheres
3. Spherical Geometry: lines, spherical triangles, law of cosines, law of sines
4. Hyperbolic Geometry: Poincaré disc model, Poincaré's half-plane model, Klein's disc model, hyperboloid model, isometries, cross-ratio, hyperbolic disstance, areas, hyperbolic law of cosines, hyperbolic law of sines, Thurstone's theorem, Mostow rigidity theorem

2017-2018
======
I thought grade 8 students. The discossed themes are close to the following ones: 

1. Graph Theory: mathings in graps, bipartite graph, Hall's marriage theorem, complete graphs, Turàn's theorem, Euler's characteristic in 2-dimensional sphere case, five color theorem 
2. Number Theory: Euler's function, Euler's theorem, Chinese remainder theorem
3. Geometry: areas of figures, similar triangles, circles and their proeprties, homothety, rotations, Euler's circle, Euler's line
4. Abstract Algebra: groups, first examples of groups, subgroups, Lagrange's theorem
5. Algebra: polynomes, little Bézout's theorem, Lagrange polynomial, Vieta's formulas for polynomials 

2016-2017
======
I thought grade 7 students. The discossed themes are close to the following ones: 

1. Graph Theory: property of trees, Euler's theorems on cycles in graphs, planar graphs, Euler's characteristic in 2-dimensional sphere case
2. Game Theory: numeral systems, Nim game, simmetry strategies
3. Number Theory: modular arithmetic, Euclid's algorithm, Fermat's little theorem, linear integral numbers equations
4. Geometry: convex polygons, Helley's theorem, geometric inequalities
5. Combinatorics: sets and operations over them, first simple observations about finite sets, binomial coefficients, binomial theorem  












