_talks/2022-12-02-talk.md, before:

---
title: "An Introduction To Homotopy Limits And Colimits"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-12-02-talk
venue: "Study Seminar on Abstract Homotopy Theory and Applications, Independent University of Moscow"
date: 2022-12-02
location: "Zoom"
---

This is a concise intro to the theory of homotopy (co-)limits


1. [Nerve-Realization Adjunction and The Bar Construction](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/bar_construction.pdf), November 7, 2022  
2. [Homotopically Final Functors and Examples of Calculations with Homotopy (Co)Limits](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar_/homotopy_final_functors.pdf), November 14, 2022  
3. [Weighted (Co)Limits, Gambino's Theorem, Reedy Model Structures](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar_/weighted_colimits_Gambino.pdf), November 21, 2022  
4. [Reedy Model Structures-2](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/hirschhorn_lemma.pdf), November 28, 2022  
5. [Applications of Reedy Theory](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/reedy_cats.pdf), December 2, 2022  

The [page of the seminar](https://sites.google.com/view/homotopy-basics-seminar) and the [IUM page](https://ium.mccme.ru/f22/f22-kaledin.html)

## References 

1. Riehl, E. (2014). Categorical Homotopy Theory (New Mathematical Monographs). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CBO9781107261457  
2. Philip Hirschhorn, Model Categories and Their Localizations, AMS Math. Survey and Monographs 99 (2002) 
3. Loregian, F. (2021). (Co)end Calculus (London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108778657

Commit message:

see the link in the title for materials added

_talks/2022-12-02-talk.md, after:

---
title: "An Introduction To Homotopy Limits And Colimits"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-12-02-talk
venue: "Study Seminar on Abstract Homotopy Theory and Applications, Independent University of Moscow"
date: 2022-12-02
location: "Zoom"
---

This is a concise intro to the theory of homotopy (co-)limits. See the link in the title for materials


1. [Nerve-Realization Adjunction and The Bar Construction](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/bar_construction.pdf), November 7, 2022  
2. [Homotopically Final Functors and Examples of Calculations with Homotopy (Co)Limits](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar_/homotopy_final_functors.pdf), November 14, 2022  
3. [Weighted (Co)Limits, Gambino's Theorem, Reedy Model Structures](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar_/weighted_colimits_Gambino.pdf), November 21, 2022  
4. [Reedy Model Structures-2](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/hirschhorn_lemma.pdf), November 28, 2022  
5. [Applications of Reedy Theory](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/reedy_cats.pdf), December 2, 2022  

The [page of the seminar](https://sites.google.com/view/homotopy-basics-seminar) and the [IUM page](https://ium.mccme.ru/f22/f22-kaledin.html)

## References 

1. Riehl, E. (2014). Categorical Homotopy Theory (New Mathematical Monographs). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/CBO9781107261457  
2. Philip Hirschhorn, Model Categories and Their Localizations, AMS Math. Survey and Monographs 99 (2002) 
3. Loregian, F. (2021). (Co)end Calculus (London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108778657
