_talks/2023-05-22-talk.md, before:

---
title: "An Introduction To The ∞-Category Of Motivic Coarse Spaces. A Series Of Talks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-05-22-talk
venue: "Study Seminar on Abstract Homotopy Theory and Applications, Higher School of Economics, Independent University of Moscow"
date: 2023-05-22
location: "Zoom"
---
  
We introduce the category $\mathsf{BornCoarse}$ of bornological coarse spaces, define the category of motivic coarse spaces $\mathrm{Spc}\, \chi$, consider some examples of coarse homology theories, including coarse ordinary homology, equivariant ordinary homology and equivariant coarse topological K-theory. We also discuss connections with index theory. This series of talks is based on the book by Ulrich Bunke and Alexander Engel "Homotopy Theory with Bornological Coarse Spaces"


0. [Elements of unstable motivic homotopy theory](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/a1_homotopy_theory.pdf), April 24, 2023
1. [The category BornCoarse Of Bornological Coarse Spaces](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/born_coarse.pdf), May 8, 2023  
2. [(Co-)products, coarse equivalences and flasque spaces](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/born_coarse_part_2.pdf), May 12, 2023   
3. [Motivic Coarse Spectra $\mathrm{Sp}\, \chi\subset \mathrm{PSh}(\mathsf{BornCoarse})$](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/motivic_homotopy_spaces_part_3.pdf), May 15, 2023
4. [Examples Of Coarse Homology Theory](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/born_coarse_examples.pdf), May 22, 2023  
  
The [page of the seminar](https://researchseminars.org/seminar/HomotopyTheoryAndApps) (video links are also available there)

## References

1. U. Bunke, "Coarse geometry," arXiv (https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09203)  
2. Bunke, Ulrich & Engel, Alexander. (2016). Homotopy Theory with Bornological Coarse Spaces. 10.1007/978-3-030-51335-1

Commit message:

see the link in the title for materials added

_talks/2023-05-22-talk.md, after:

---
title: "An Introduction To The ∞-Category Of Motivic Coarse Spaces. A Series Of Talks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-05-22-talk
venue: "Study Seminar on Abstract Homotopy Theory and Applications, Higher School of Economics, Independent University of Moscow"
date: 2023-05-22
location: "Zoom"
---
  
We introduce the category $\mathsf{BornCoarse}$ of bornological coarse spaces, define the category of motivic coarse spaces $\mathrm{Spc}\, \chi$, consider some examples of coarse homology theories, including coarse ordinary homology, equivariant ordinary homology and equivariant coarse topological $K$-theory. We discuss also connections with index theory. This series of talks is based on the book by Ulrich Bunke and Alexander Engel "Homotopy Theory with Bornological Coarse Spaces". See the link in the title for materials


0. [Elements of unstable motivic homotopy theory](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/a1_homotopy_theory.pdf), April 24, 2023
1. [The category BornCoarse Of Bornological Coarse Spaces](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/born_coarse.pdf), May 8, 2023  
2. [(Co-)products, coarse equivalences and flasque spaces](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/born_coarse_part_2.pdf), May 12, 2023   
3. [Motivic Coarse Spectra $\mathrm{Sp}\, \chi\subset \mathrm{PSh}(\mathsf{BornCoarse})$](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/motivic_homotopy_spaces_part_3.pdf), May 15, 2023
4. [Examples Of Coarse Homology Theory](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/born_coarse_examples.pdf), May 22, 2023  
  
The [page of the seminar](https://researchseminars.org/seminar/HomotopyTheoryAndApps) (video links are also available there)

## References

1. U. Bunke, "Coarse geometry," arXiv (https://arxiv.org/abs/2305.09203)  
2. Bunke, Ulrich & Engel, Alexander. (2016). Homotopy Theory with Bornological Coarse Spaces. 10.1007/978-3-030-51335-1
