_talks/2023-04-03-talk.md, before:

---
title: "A First Glimpse On ∞-Cosmoi. A Series Of Talks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-04-03-talk
venue: "Study Seminar on Abstract Homotopy Theory and Applications, Higher School of Economics, Independent University of Moscow"
date: 2023-04-03
location: "Zoom"
---

In this series of talks, we will learn about $\infty$-cosmoi in the sense of Emily Riehl and Dominic Verity



1. [An Introduction to Quasi-Categories](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/quasi_categories.pdf), Febraury 20, 2023    
2. [Simplicial Categories and Homotopy Coherence](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/homotopy_coherence.pdf), Febraury 27, 2023    
3. [2-Category Of Quasi-Categories](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/2_cat_qcat_intro.pdf), March 6, 2023  
4. [Adjunctions, limits and colimits in $\infty$-cosmoi](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/adjunctions_limits_colimits.pdf), March 20, 2023  
5. [Comma $\infty$-categories](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/comma_infinity_category.pdf), March 27, 2023  
6. [Representable Comma $\infty$-Categories & Model Independence](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/model_independence.pdf), April 3, 2023
   
The [page of the seminar](https://researchseminars.org/seminar/HomotopyTheoryAndApps) (video links are also available there)  

## References

Riehl, E., & Verity, D. (2022). Elements of ∞-Category Theory (Cambridge Studies in Advanced Mathematics). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108936880

Commit message:

see the link in the title for materials added

_talks/2023-04-03-talk.md, after:

---
title: "A First Glimpse On ∞-Cosmoi. A Series Of Talks"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-04-03-talk
venue: "Study Seminar on Abstract Homotopy Theory and Applications, Higher School of Economics, Independent University of Moscow"
date: 2023-04-03
location: "Zoom"
---

In this series of talks, we will learn about $\infty$-cosmoi in the sense of Emily Riehl and Dominic Verity. See the link in the title for materials



1. [An Introduction to Quasi-Categories](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/quasi_categories.pdf), Febraury 20, 2023    
2. [Simplicial Categories and Homotopy Coherence](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/homotopy_coherence.pdf), Febraury 27, 2023    
3. [2-Category Of Quasi-Categories](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/2_cat_qcat_intro.pdf), March 6, 2023  
4. [Adjunctions, limits and colimits in $\infty$-cosmoi](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/adjunctions_limits_colimits.pdf), March 20, 2023  
5. [Comma $\infty$-categories](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/comma_infinity_category.pdf), March 27, 2023  
6. [Representable Comma $\infty$-Categories & Model Independence](https://magisterlud.github.io/files/the_seminar/model_independence.pdf), April 3, 2023
   
The [page of the seminar](https://researchseminars.org/seminar/HomotopyTheoryAndApps) (video links are also available there)  

## References

Riehl, E., & Verity, D. (2022). Elements of ∞-Category Theory (Cambridge Studies in Advanced Mathematics). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. doi:10.1017/9781108936880
